System Pipeline

The system consists of five major components.

1. Video Input

A short video clip of human-robot interaction is captured from a camera or provided as a prerecorded demonstration video.

The clip is segmented into 2–4 second windows so temporal cues like posture shifts, acceleration, and facial expressions can be analyzed.

2. Perception Layer

The perception module extracts visual and behavioral signals:

Facial expressions

Body posture

Motion intensity

Distance changes (proxemics)

Interaction context

These signals form the structured input for reasoning.

3. Cosmos Reasoning Engine

The perception signals and video segment are passed to Cosmos Reason 2, which performs video reasoning to infer:

Emotional state

Evidence supporting the prediction

Interaction risk level

Recommended interaction strategy

Example output:

{
  "emotion": "angry",
  "confidence": 0.91,
  "evidence": [
    "raised voice",
    "rapid arm gestures",
    "tense posture"
  ],
  "interaction_state": "deescalate",
  "risk_level": "medium",
  "recommended_robot_actions": [
    {"action": "increase_distance", "value_m": 0.5},
    {"action": "speech_rate", "value": "slow"},
    {"action": "tone", "value": "calm"}
  ]
}

Cosmos Reason is critical because it connects perception signals with contextual understanding, enabling the robot to interpret dynamic human behavior rather than static frames.

4. Interaction Policy Engine

The interaction state produced by Cosmos is mapped to robot behavior policies.

Interaction State	Robot Behavior
De-escalate	Increase distance, calm voice
Engage	Friendly greeting, energetic gestures
Support	Gentle tone, empathetic responses
Assist	Step-by-step guidance

This policy layer ensures the robot responds appropriately to different emotional contexts.

5. Robot Action Layer

The robot executes behavior adjustments including:

Voice tone modification

Speech pacing

Movement speed

Personal distance adjustments

In the demo, these actions are represented through visual overlays and simulated robot responses.
